## Current objectives ##

- [ ] Display relative abundances of metabolic reactions using Cellular Overviews
- [ ] Map protein to EC to KEGG in order to use group contribution free energy of reactions

## Yeast_reconstruction ##

**Sequences:** 

* CHEBI_compound - a list of all of the metabolites referenced in the sbml reconstruction, associated with a standard name & structural information ?
* orf_genomic_1000.fasta - the mRNA sequence of all transcripts, including introns & 1000 bp upstream & downstream (couldn't get just the UTR)
* orf_genomic - from ATG to AUG/UAG/UAA including introns for all high-confidence transcripts
* rna_genomic - non-mRNA RNAs - tRNA, rRNA ?
* METAdict.tsv - correspondence between CHEBI IDs and consensus names
* PROTcomposition.tsv - Protein Name + ID with counts of amino acids
* RNAcomposition.tsv - Gene Name with counts of nucleotides



**generated by sbml_FBA_parser_forYeast.py:**
	
* rxn_yeast_nocomp.tsv: reactions and their associated stoichiometry as well as the enzyme (modifier) that catalyzes the rxn.  The internal names of all members are cross-referenced to spec_yeast_nocomp.tsv and then associated with a meaningful CHEBI / uniprot or SGD designation in species_par_yeast_nocomp.tsv
* spec_yeast_nocomp.tsv: association between an internal id and a species id, that is unique for a metabolite or protein.  compartment information (extraceullar versus intracellular) is included.
* species_par_yeast_nocomp.tsv: associates a species id with references to a meaningful id; either CHEBI (for metabolites) or UniProt/SGD (for proteins).
	
---

** gibbsAnalysis **

Applies two measures of thermodynamic reaction reversibility to predict the reversibility of yeast reactions

* Match yeast genes -> E.C. and compare to e. coli genes -> E. C. to pass e. coli annotated free energy of reaction to yeast reactions.  This flips free energy to match substrates and products between corresponding yeast and e. coli reactions.
* Predict free energy of reaction from free energy of formation.  
  
---

## Yeast_genome_scale ##

* FBA_run_full_reco.R: Integrate experimental data and in silico reconstruction
    * Experimental Data:
      1. Maximum nutrient uptake rates: Boer_nutrients
      2. Currently using an invariant composition: comp_yeat.tsv
    * Reconstruction:
      1. What direction do reactions proceed based on thermodynamics.
      2. which reactions can carry flux based on auxotrophy information
* FBA_lib.R: functions which provide more information about a reaction or metabolite and other misc.
* cytoGrapher.R: This program has two somewhat disparate tasks:
  1. Given previously positioned metabolite and reaction nodes, add on additional nodes to generate two positioning files: a node for each metabolite (some of these are split according to met_split.txt) and two nodes for each reaction, one linking substrates and one linking products.  In addition, some metabolite species can be classified as cofactors using the cofactorexception.txt file, so these nodes will be displayed primarily when they are being anabolized rather than when they are interconverted.
  2. Using positioning files and flux information: draw a metabolic network in cytoscape and color reactions according to the flux carried.
* metSty: Stores the positional information of metabolites nodes.
* rxnSty: Stores the positional information of reaction nodes.

---

## EcoliYeastMatch ##

In order to incorporate thermodynamic information into the yeast flux-balance model, the gibbs free energy's available for ecoli rxns and species must be associated with the corresponding yeast ids.
This involves converting yeast ChEBI IDs to KEGG ids and then associating these yeast KEGG ids with ecoli KEGG ids

* CTSpy.py (written by Dave Robinson): All conversions between metabolite names & standards were done using the chemical translation service (CTS).
* ecoliYeastMatch.py: Because the same chemical can have multiple ChEBI or KEGG ids, the association is made more degenerate by first searching ChEBI ids to metabolite synonyms and then re-searching these against KEGG ids, to get a set of possible KEGG ids.
* ecoliNameDict.txt - correspondence between geneID (unknown standard) and gene name. Downloaded from: http://coli.berkeley.edu/ecoli/gene.txt
* gene-links.dat - correspondence between geneIDs and gene name, etc.  Downloaded from BioCyc


---

## ChemicalSpeciesQuant ##

Relative or absolute quantification of various crucial species:

* brauer-microarray: RNA abundance across 36 chemostat conditions
* FTIR: attempt to measure composition using FTIR
* BulkComposition: measuring the dry weight and absolute amounts of abundant macromolecules which go into making more yeast
* Metabolites: Boer relative abundances of metabolites.  Yeast absolute concentration yifan absolute measures of metabolite abundance which need to be associated with Boer data using a paired comparison.
* Proteomics: Relative abundance of abundant proteins across 25 chemostat conditions. 


---

## Thermo ##

Prepare the absolute concentrations of metabolites, so that these can be used to modify the reaction free energy

* yeastNames.py - conversion between names of metabolites and possible ChEBI and KEGG ids

